# cat
Personal project: recreation of the game "rat-a-tat-cat" in Python

"Rat-a-tat-cat" is a card game (with a special deck, not a standard one) that I used to play all the time as a kid. I decided to recreate it on the computer after seeing the students at my work start their own card games in Python. It's meant to be played on the command line using keyboard inputs and a text-based view. The game is played with a facedown hand, and each turn you take a card from the deck or discard pile and exchange it for a card in your hand. On your turn, you can end the game and the person with the lowest hand values wins. The cards are 0-9, along with three 'power cards' which let you look at your hand, draw two extra cards, or swap a card with someone else.

For this project I started by just having a start menu, a loop to run the game, and a function to end the game and display the end screen. I created the deck pretty easily with some for loops, and a function to tally up everyone's points and declare a winner. The code for exchanging a normal 'number card' with a new card was pretty easy, although creating a sufficient (but simple) UI took a lot of trial and error (and also learning the colorama library). The bulk of the code was creating a Player class and function objects for each exchange function. I tried to use some object oriented patterns to make the code cleaner and of course abide by the SOLID principles. Not to toot my own horn but I think I did a great job of this, since I found it pretty easy to tweak each function object without affecting any other parts of the program. 

I wrote myself a little todo list at the top in case I ever come back to this program. The hardest part will probably be making the AI smarter, since right now they just do everything randomly. There's also a lot of odds and ends that are in the real game. I realized halfway through this project that rat-a-tat-cat really works better with a physical deck of cards, but it was still fun to recreate it. 
